Typewriter review (#7916)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/protocols/apis-and-extensions/typewriter.md

## API token configuration

Typewriter requires a Segment API token to fetch Tracking Plans from the [Segment Public API](https://docs.segmentapis.com/){:target="_blank”}.

You must have the [Workspace Owner role](/docs/segment-app/iam/roles/) to create Segment API tokens.

To create an API token:
1. Click on the **Tokens** tab on the [Access Management](https://app.segment.com/goto-my-workspace/settings/access-management){:target="_blank”} page and click **Create Token**.
2. Choose Segment's Public API.
3. Add a description for the token and assign access. If you choose *Workspace Member*, you only need to select **Tracking Plan Read-Only** for the Resource Role, as Typewriter only needs the *Tracking Plan Read-Only* role.
4. Click **Create**.

Typewriter looks for an API token in the following order:
1. If a token is piped through, it will use that token. For example, `echo $TW_TOKEN | typewriter build`.
2. Typewriter executes a token script from the `typewriter.yml`. See [Token Script](#token-script) for more information.
3. Typewriter reads the contents of the `~/.typewriter` file.

The quickstart wizard prompts you for an API token and stores it in `~/.typewriter` for you.

> We recommend you use a [Token Script](#token-script) to share an API token with your team. When you use a token script, you can supply your API token as an environment variable (`echo $TYPEWRITER_TOKEN`), from an `.env.` file (`source .env; echo $TYPEWRITER_TOKEN`) or using any other CLI tool for providing secrets.

Author: ```suggestion
Segment recommends you use a [Token Script](#token-script) to share an API token with your team. When you use a token script, you can supply your API token as an environment variable (`echo $TYPEWRITER_TOKEN`), from an `.env.` file (`source .env; echo $TYPEWRITER_TOKEN`) or using any other CLI tool for providing secrets.
```

> We also recommend you to pipe through your API Token as this will let you keep your token secret, but it also allows you to share it across your team.

Author: ```suggestion
Segment also recommends you to pipe through your API Token as this will let you keep your token secret, but it also allows you to share it across your team.
```

## Best Practices

We **strongly recommend** that you store your Tracking Plan (`plan.json`) in a version control system. This guarantees that Typewriter will generate the same client, regardless of any changes you make to your Tracking Plan in the Segment app. Otherwise, changes to your Tracking Plan could lead to broken builds.

> We recommend that you only check in the `plan.json`, and generate your Typewriter client during the application build step (by calling `npx typewriter`). You can do this in `git` with the following `.gitignore`:

Author: ```suggestion
Segment recommends that you only check in the `plan.json`, and generate your Typewriter client during the application build step (by calling `npx typewriter`). You can do this in `git` with the following `.gitignore`:
```

## Known Limitations

Typewriter only supports Track calls. However, you can continue to use the underlying (untyped) analytics instance to perform Identify, Group, Page, Screen, and Alias calls.

Not all languages support run-time validation. Currently, `analytics.js` and `analytics-node` support it using [AJV](https://github.com/epoberezkin/ajv){:target="_blank"} (both for JavaScript and TypeScript projects) while `analytics-swift` and `analytics-kotlin` don't support run-time validation. Typewriter also does not support event validation using the Common JSON Schema.

## Contributing

> If you're interested in contributing, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/segmentio/typewriter/issues/new){:target="_blank”} and we can help provide you pointers to get started.

Author: ```suggestion
If you're interested in contributing, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/segmentio/typewriter/issues/new){:target="_blank”} and Segment can help provide you pointers to get started.
```
